In this lecture we will learn about forms and HVM L in HVM.
A form is used to obtain user input.
When you go to the doctor and fill out paperwork you're filling out form forms and HVM or a digital
version of this type of form and involves giving the user input fields to submit data to forms and able
to use it or send data to the Web site and are an important concept in user interaction with web pages.
This data is then sent to a web server to form tagged defines a form in each female to start or form.
We will define an opening and closing form.
Tag HVM all forms are made up of form elements.
The most important of these elements is the input element which is used for obtaining user input.
The input tag has a type attribute which specifies the type of input that a user can give.
If we want to add a text field we can assign the type attribute value of text then we will go to the
web browser and run our code as you can see an input field is displayed on the web page that we can
type text into.
After that we will go back to the editor notice that the input element doesn't use a closing tag.
Forms are a little bit different than your usual HVM element.
You can add text directly anywhere in your form element without using paragraph tags or any other sort
of tag.
For example let's add some text to tell the user what to input in the input field we just created.
We will add the text.
Please enter your name so that the user knows to enter their name into the input field.
Once we have typed this we will jump back to the web browser and run our code to see this text label
added to our form's input field.
Then we will go back to the editor and build on this example.
In the current state of the code the label an input field will be on the same line with no space in
between to add spacing between the two.
We can use the non-breaking space character ampersand and be as p semi-colon.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code to see the result.
Notice that there is now a horizontal space between our text and the input field.
Then we will go back to the editor if we want to put the label in the input field on separate lines.
We would use the break element to add a line break once we have done this.
We will go back to the web browser and run this code as you can see the label is now on a different
line than the input field.
Let's go back to the editor.
There are many types of input that can be specified in addition to text.
Let's run through some examples so that you can see just how diverse your options of obtaining user
input are when creating forms and each GMO.
Let's remove our text from the form and just leave an input field.
We will change the type of the input to color.
Once we have done that we will go to the web browser and run our code.
Notice that a color picker is now displayed in the browser.
Clicking on the color picker will allow the user to select the color we will go back to the editor.
Let's change the input type to range next.
Then we will drag the file into our browser to run the code as you can see.
This allows the user to use a slider to input information.
Let's go back to the editor changing the input type to checkbox will display a checkbox and allow the
user to toggle a checkbox checked or unchecked by clicking on it.
Let's go to the browser and run the code we just wrote.
Next we will go back to the editor if we change the type to file it will allow the user to choose a
file on their computer.
Let's run the code in the browser to see its effect.
Then we will go back to the editor if we want to allow the user to enter a date.
We could change the value of the type attribute to date.
This will give the user interface to specify the date in an m m d d y y y y format.
Let's go to the web browser and run this code.
Then we will go back to the editor.
There are several other types that we can use within the input element but let's take a look at some
of the other elements we can use inside of a form.
Most forms allow the user to click a button to submit information they H-G a M-L button element allows
us to create a button for our form.
We will add an opening and closing button tag with the text that will appear over the button between
the opening and closing tags.
Then we will go to the browser and run our code.
The content of our element defines the text that will be displayed on our button.
In this case we are specifying that we want the word button to be displayed on our button.
Let's jump back to the editor buttons similar to input fields have a type attribute that specifies the
type of button.
There are three values that the type attribute for a button can have.
They are button submit and reset button type is set to reset.
Then it will reset all of the fields on a form back to their default state.
If a button type is set to submit it will allow the user to submit the data that they have entered into
the form to the web server of the Web site.
If the button type is set to button it will allow the user to click a button and perform an action that
we can specify in the On Click attribute.
Let's first make our button a reset button.
We will add an input element to our form and give it a type of text.
Next we will add a type attribute to our button with a value of reset so that the button resets are
text and put field when we click it.
Time to see our code in action.
Let's run our code in the web browser.
Then we will type some text into our input field and click on our button to reset it next.
Let's jump back to the editor buttons that have a type attribute of submit send information to the server.
Since doing this requires some HP scripting that is outside the scope of this course we can also link
buttons to their own custom functions.
First let's change the value of the type attribute on our button to button.
In this case we will display within the alert box whatever text the user is typed into our input field
to do this.
We will first give our input element and ID.
Next we will add an opening and closing script tagged for each DML document outside of our form.
The script tag is where we can embed javascript inside of each DML code.
Then we will create a function that we can call on click of our form button the name of our function
will be display message we will store the value of the user input in a variable name tax.
Next we will call javascript's alert function and pass in the text variable that we just created.
Finally we will add an on click attribute to our button tag with a value of a function call to the function
we wrote.
After that we will go to the web browser and run our code.
Now when we typed text into our input field and then click a button you should see a window pop up with
the text that has been typed into the input field.
Let's go back to the editor.
The next form element we are going to look at is a text area a text area is an input field that supports
multi-line input and could have a specified width and height to create a text area element.
We can add an opening and closing text area tagged to our code.
Any text that we put between these tags will be default text that displays in our text area the row
attribute specifies the number of lines that a text area can support.
Assigning a value of 12 to a rose attribute will allow the text area to display up to 12 lines of text.
The cauls attribute specifies a with for text area.
Let's say I add a column attribute to our text area to define it's with thanks to the textarea element
users can type multiple lines of input into our form.
Let's run this code in the browser to see the result.
Then we will jump back to the editor the select element is used to add a dropdown menu to our form to
give the user the ability to select a dropdown option as input to start.
We will add a select element to our form by putting an opening and closing select tag into our code.
Next we will add options for the user to select to do so we can use the option element option elements
have opening and closing tags in between these tags goes the text which will be the option that the
user will see when they click on the dropdown.
Let's say I add a few more options to our dropdown menu.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code.
Let's jump back to the editor.
We can specify an option that we want to pre-select by using the selected attribute.
We can also disable an option to make it unable to be selected by the user or disabled the menu option
will also appear greyed out when the user clicks on the dropdown to display the options.
Once we have typed all of that we can run our code in the browser as you can see our select menu has
the three options we specified.
Option 1 option 2 and Option 3 option 2 is selected and Option 3 is disabled since we used the selected
attribute on option 2 and the disabled attribute on option 3 forms are an important concept and HVM
L as they are how we obtain user input on web pages in this lecture we covered several form elements
including input button text area and so that in the next lecture we will look at a recap of what we
learned in this section.